>> Richard Feldman: So
to summarize, Elm, as we've seen,
is a language that
complies the JavaScript.
As we've seen, it's got a lot
of differences to JavaScript.
It's not sort of Java Script with some
tweaks, it really is its own separate
programming language that just uses
JavaScript as a compilation target so
that browsers understand it.
We talked about how companies of all
different sizes are using Elm for
all sorts of different purposes.
Yours could potentially be the next one.
We've seen some of the technical benefits
that are leading companies to choose
things like that.
Something I'm always curious about,
did anyone encounter any runtime
exceptions while doing this workshop?
>> Richard Feldman: Not surprised.
[LAUGH] So
hopefully, you've gotten some sort of
a sense of how Elm is able to do this.
It's because the design of the compiler,
and
the design of the libraries in conjunction
with the compiler, really do make it
extraordinarily difficult to accidentally
crash your Elm code in production.
This is not a fluke, this is the norm.
We've also seen how to sort of embed
Elm in an existing piece of HTML with
Elm.Main.init, sometimes
passing it a node like this,
which is what we did at
the beginning of the workshop,
before we switched to the single page app
that was taking over the entire page.
This is really the key
to incremental adoption.
This sort of embedding it into one piece
of one page Along with the JavaScript
interop techniques that we
learned in the last section,
are the most common story for
how people get started using Elm at work.
It's almost never a green field,
like we're gonna build this
new thing in Elm from scratch.
It's almost always we've got an existing
application, we wanna try Elm out.
Let's just get a little bit of Elm going
on one page, get it into production,
see how we like it.
Something very small and low risk.
Low risk is the key to
incremental adoption, and
that's been the most successful success
story we hear over and over again.
>> Richard Feldman: We talked
about the Elm architecture.
This is sort of the final form of
it with model view and update,
like we started out with, and
then we added commands later.
And then finally, we added subscriptions
to sort of fit the entire puzzle together.
Update is sort of the brains
of the operation,
it receives messages from
a variety of different sources.
And once it does receive those messages,
it can potentially update the model.
Which, in turn,
transitions view to render some new HTML.
And potentially,
we trigger some subscriptions that
we might wanna turn on and off.
The runtime orchestrates the whole thing,
ties everything together and makes it so
that every single Elm function that we
write in the entire language can be
completely pure while still being able to
do all of the useful things that we need
to be able to do to make
a working web application.
If you wanna see the final version of
this, like the actual for real, for
real version, without any induced bugs for
exercise purposes,
it's at
github.com/rtfeldman/elm-spa-example.
Also in that repository are links
to the real world examples for
all the other different architectures.
So they've got React, Angular, View,
all sorts of different things that you can
compare to see what would this
application look like in Elm?
What's the analog in React and
Angular and View, etc.?
So you can pick a technology that
you are more familiar with and
just kind of bounce back and
forth and see how things are done and
how things are sort of
different between the two.
Also, big thanks to the Thinkster for
putting that together because I think
that's been an incredibly helpful tool for
people to learn these technologies.
>> Richard Feldman: Shout out
to the official Elm guide.
This is really kind of the the source for
what is the right way
to do Elm applications.
This is written by Evan,
the creator of Elm.
It's on the Elm website, and
it goes through a lot of the same types of
material that we just went through
in it in a different format.
Also, Elm in Action is a book I'm
writing for Manning Publications.
It's mostly done, but
not completely done, so
you can get that early access right
now through their MIF program.
Also, definitely very strong
shout out to Elm Slack.
This is not like Slack in other
communities, I'm told, because,
especially the beginner's channel is
just full of unbelievably friendly,
helpful people who spend a lot
of time just helping people out.
I hear over and over again that is
the best resource is just hop on Slack,
get in the beginners channel,
whatever question you have, just ask it.
Chances are someone's gonna
answer it pretty quickly and
help you get unstuck with anything
that you run into along the way.
So highly, highly recommend Slack.
It's the number one resource for
getting Elm questions answered
when you're getting started.
>> Richard Feldman: There's also an Elm
discourse, discourse.elm-lang.org.
This is more of a sort of long forum
discussions and stuff like that.
Not as helpful as Slack, based on my
anecdotal evidence that I've heard from
people, but still a useful source
of knowledge and discussions.
There's an FAQ,
which includes quite a bit of things.
This is sort of a community curated thing
of just common questions that people have,
like somebody asked earlier about,
hey, what's about Elm on the server?
There's just a lot of stuff like that
that people just sort of run into.
So when in doubt,
that's a good place to go.
The Elm Town Podcast has lots of cool,
entertaining topics.
They've got, I don't know,
some 40-some-odd episodes over the past
couple years, it's at elmtown.audio.
And finally, there's some success stories
that I think are worth reading to just
sorta understand the different
perspectives that people have under their
experiences using Elm of work.
So obviously, I've had a lot of success.
I've been Elm about four years at work,
we have about a quarter million
lines of Elm code at work.
And we've been extremely happy with it,
but it's not just us.
I think if you're interested in
using Elm work, I think it's helpful
to read some of these stories from
other people how Elm will work better.
Elm in Production 25,000 lines later.
One year of Elm Production.
And hopefully, at some point, your
success story can go here on this slide.
So that's it, that's the workshop.
Thank you all so much for attending,
and hopefully you learned something.
>> Group: [APPLAUSE]